# CX-0044 ECLASS v1.0.2

## ABSTRACT

ECLASS[^3] is an international cross-industry master-data business
standard for products and services information to be exchanged. The
ECLASS data dictionary is based on ISO and IEC standards and is an
important enabler for interoperability. ECLASS is since 2000 in the
market and widespread used in many industries. Therefore, ECLASS has a
state-of-the-art infrastructure and experience to further develop and
maintain a semantic dictionary.

The Asset Administration Shell (AAS) has standardized the structure
including the different submodels defined in IDTA, and ECLASS has
standardized the semantics for information elements used for the
definition of digital twins.

ECLASS is the recommended dictionary by Plattform Industrie 4.0 for the
creation of Asset Administration Shell and Digital Twins. Therefore,
ECLASS is to be preferred within Catena-X for the semantic description
of models and their attributes. Thus, if the semantic description of an
asset or its properties is available in the ECLASS dictionary, then it
shall be used. If it is not part of ECLASS, alternatives can be used. In
parallel, a change request should be made to ECLASS to add the necessary
information in the next release so that it is available for Catena-X in
the future.

## 1. Introduction

### 1.1 Audience & Scope

> *This section is non-normative*

The standard is relevant for:

- Data Provider / Consumer
- Enablement Service Provider
- Consulting Services Provider

The standard is relevant for the description of assets and their
properties.

### 1.2 Context

ECLASS[^4] is a cross-industry master-data business standard for
products and services information to be exchanged in a computer-sensible
form across all borders -- across sectors, countries, languages, and
organizations. The ECLASS data dictionary is based on ISO 13584-42 and
IEC 61360-2. It is used, for instance, for the exchange of product data
for procurement, eCommerce, and engineering tools.

ECLASS is a formal semantic dictionary that is used for product
description and product classification. The information model used by
ECLASS is the foundation for the classification and description of
products and services. It allows the reuse of generic descriptions in
multiple business domains, the mapping to other dictionaries, and
ensures the upgradability of the ECLASS dictionary.

ECLASS is recommended by Plattform Industrie 4.0 for the creation of
Asset Administration Shell and Digital Twins[^2].

The Asset Administration Shell (AAS) has standardized the structure
(including the different submodels defined in IDTA), and ECLASS has
standardized the semantics for information elements used for the
definition of digital twins.

ECLASS is seen as a key element of an AAS and integral for semantic
interoperability in its submodels. The document[^5] "Modelling the
Semantics of Data of an Asset Administration Shell with Elements of
ECLASS" provides modeling details.

### 1.3 ECLASS Overview

The data model of ECLASS is shortly depicted in ECLASS website[^1].
ECLASS is a formal semantic dictionary which is used for product
description and product classification. The ECLASS dictionary is
maintained in Releases. Each Release is containing an exhaustively
defined and reproduceable set of structure elements.

ECLASS uses globally unique identifiers for every Structure Element
included in the ECLASS Standard. This globally unique identifier is
called IRDI (International Registration Data Identifier). These
identifiers are used to ensure that the semantic of an element is unique
in the overall system. The IRDI is based on the international standards
ISO/IEC 11179-6, ISO 29002, and ISO 6532. Every institution registered
by the registration authority has a unique ICD (International Code
Designator) identifier. In the case of ECLASS this is the "0173". ECLASS
Dictionary provides IRDIs for all Structure Elements e.g.,
Classification Classes, Application Classes, Properties, Units of
Measure, Property Values (in case of coded values), Value Lists,
Aspects, Blocks and Templates. For example, the IRDI
0173-1#02-AAO677#002 stands for a property defining the "Manufacturer
name".

ECLASS is an open standard based on global IEC standards. The
development is openly designed, content can be contributed by anyone,
the data model is open and licensed free of charge for the recipients of
the data. An ECLASS license is needed to describe commercial products.
Additional details can be obtained from the ECLASS website[^6]. For
testing and development of Catena-X models there is no cost. In
addition, ECLASS recently released Release 13 with the Asset XML
containing IDTA submodels, which are also free of charge also for
productive use.

Details on the model can be acquired from the ECLASS conceptual data
model specs[^7].

### 1.4 Conformance

As well as sections marked as non-normative, all authoring guidelines,
diagrams, examples, and notes in this specification are non-normative.
Everything else in this specification is normative.

The key words MAY, MUST, MUST NOT, OPTIONAL, RECOMMENDED, REQUIRED,
SHOULD and SHOULD NOT in this document are to be interpreted as
described in [BCP
14](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/bcp14) \[[RFC2119](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/#bib-rfc2119)\]
\[[RFC8174](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/#bib-rfc8174)\] when, and
only when, they appear in all capitals, as shown here.

### 1.5 Proof of Conformity

> *This section is non-normative*

ECLASS is relevant to all semantic models developed in Catena-X which in
future releases should utilize ECLASS for semantic interoperability.
Future releases may include all model reference implementations and
relative processes.

All participants and their solutions will need to prove that they
conform to the Catena-X standards. To validate that the standards are
applied correctly, Catena-X employs Conformity Assessment Bodies (CABs).

The concept description of an AAS Element can be defined with elements
of ECLASS. In general, the principle followed is to make semantics
explicitly by using standardized ECLASS Elements.

To prove conformity, the resulting semantic models developed SHOULD

- utilize ECLASS for the semantic description of assets by using the respective IRDIs.

- explicitly state the absence of the specific attributes in ECLASS as justification of not using it.

### 1.6 Examples

ECLASS has released a document^2^ describing how AAS and ECLASS can be
utilized. More specific documents for the use of ECLASS within the AAS
are on the way. All of it will be available on the ECLASS and IDTA
website.

The essential functional elements of the AAS are submodels, which
comprise descriptive properties, configuration parameters, variables,
files, offered capabilities and operations of the asset in a
machine-interpretable form. Submodels are information models that
describe a specific aspect of an asset. Each submodel and all its
elements have a semantic ID. This semantic ID is inherited by submodels,
submodel elements, qualifiers and views and is a reference to a unique
identifier. Extensions and external asset IDs also exist. These elements
do also have a semantic ID.

The ECLASS standard should be used for this semantic ID. The concept
description of an AAS Element can be defined with elements of ECLASS. In
general, the principle followed is to make semantics explicitly by using
standardized ECLASS Elements.

![Mapping of a Property with different Categories to an ECLASS
Property](./assets/CX-0044_Picture.jpg)

Figure: Mapping of a Property with different Categories to an ECLASS
Property[^2]

ECLASS, with its Release 13.0 in 2022, contains enhancements for the
Asset Administration Shell (AAS). Regarding the data model, a new
application class of type "Asset" has been introduced in addition to
BASIC and ADVANCED. Furthermore, features can have the data types
\"File\" and \"Blob\". In addition, AAS submodel templates were adhering
to the IDTA standardized submodels "Handover Documentation" and "Digital
Nameplate for Industrial Equipment".

Further technical details can be found in the respective webpage[^8].

### 1.7 TERMINOLOGY

> *This section is non-normative*

**AAS**
Asset Administration Shell

**IRDI**

International Registration Data Identifier

**IDTA**

Industrial Digital Twin Association e.V.

Additional terminology used in this standard can be looked up in the
glossary on the association homepage.

## 2. Usage of ECLASS Semantics in Catena-X

> *This section is normative*

The usage of ECLASS in Catena-X standardized semantic models is an
important enabler for interoperability. If any model is to be
standardized in Catena-X according to "CX-0003 Semantic Aspect meta
model (SAMM)", then it SHOULD be checked if ECLASS can cover parts of
the model with appropriate semantic descriptions.

![Process of semantic description with ECLASS](./assets/CX-0044_Picture_2.jpg)

Figure: Process of semantic description with ECLASS

Specifically, as shown in Figure 1, the following investigative steps
SHOULD be carried out:

- If the semantic description of an asset or its properties exists in the ECLASS dictionary, then it SHOULD be used to describe it.
- In case the ECLASS dictionary does not have the necessary information then:
  - Alternatives MAY be used, e.g., own, or alternative dictionary.
  - In parallel a request SHOULD be made to ECLASS to add the necessary information in its next release so that this can be used in the future.

ECLASS is an open standard which is constantly further being developed
to respond to changes in the market. As such, anyone independent whether
they are ECLASS members or not, can submit change requests in order to
introduce or revise ECLASS content. Hence, as shown in Figure 1, such a
submission SHOULD be made to ECLASS. Subsequently, when ECLASS
introduces the needed changes in its future release, the Catena-X model
SHOULD use the requested content. Further info on how such requests can
be submitted to ECLASS is described in detail on the respective ECLASS
webpage[^9].

## 3. References

### 3.1 Normative References

The ECLASS[^10] website provides concrete info and tools with respect to
understanding and utilizing the ECLASS standard.

### 3.2 Non-Normative References

> *This section is non-normative*

In addition to the ECLASS[^11] website additional documents enable the
better understanding of ECLASS usage in conjunction with Asset
Administration Shell and Digital Twins^2^. The ECLASS Release 13.0
contains enhancements for the Asset Administration Shell (AAS) that
include a new application class of type "Asset". Technical details can
be found on the respective webpage[^12].

[^1]: https://catena-x.net/fileadmin/user_upload/Vereinsdokumente/Catena-X_IP_Regelwerk_IP_Regulations.pdf

[^2]: https://catena-x.net/de/standard-librar

[^3]: https://eclass.eu

[^4]: https://eclass.eu

[^5]: https://eclass.eu/fileadmin/Redaktion/pdf-Dateien/Broschueren/2021-06-29_Whitepaper_PlattformI40-ECLASS.pdf

[^6]: https://eclass.eu/en/eclass-standard/licenses

[^7]: https://eclass.eu/support/technical-specification/data-model/conceptual-data-model

[^8]: https://eclass.eu/shop/en/product/eclass-13-0-asset

[^9]: https://eclass.eu/support/guides/change-request

[^10]: https://eclass.eu

[^11]: https://eclass.eu

[^12]: https://eclass.eu/shop/en/product/eclass-13-0-asset

## Legal

Copyright © 2024 Catena-X Automotive Network e.V. All rights reserved. For more information, please visit [here](/copyright).
